When the fresh air gets polluted by means of dust, toxic gases, smoke, motor vehicles, mills and factories, etc called air pollution. As we all know that fresh air is the most important element of the healthy life, we need to think that what happens if whole atmospheric air gets dirty. First of all air pollution is the matter of great regret for the whole human fraternity. Some of the big reasons of the air pollution are use of poisonous fertilizers, insecticides, pesticides in the agricultural sectors by the innocent farmers in order to increase the crop production. Released chemicals and hazardous gases (ammonia) from such fertilizers are getting mixed into the fresh air and causing air pollution.

Burning of fossil fuels such as coal, petroleum including other factory combustibles are the major causes of air pollution. Variety of smoke emissions from the automobiles such as cars, buses, motorcycles, trucks, jeeps, trains, aeroplanes, etc are also causing air pollution. Increasing number of industries is causing release of toxic industrial smokes and harmful gases (like carbon monoxide, organic compounds, hydrocarbons, chemicals, etc) from the factories and mills to the environment. Some indoor activities of the people like innocent use of cleaning products, washing powders, paints etc emits various toxic chemicals to the air.

The ever increasing level of air pollution also enhances its negative and harmful effects to the health of living beings. Air pollution is causing global warming to increase because of increasing atmospheric temperature due to the increasing level of green house gases. Such green house gases again causing green house effect and forcing sea levels to increase, glaciers to melt, weather to change, climate to change, etc. Increasing air pollution is causing many lethal diseases (cancer, heart attack, asthma, bronchitis, kidney diseases, etc) and death to occur. Various important animals and plants species have been destroyed completely from this planet. Increasing level of harmful gases in the environment are causing the occurrence of acid rain and depleting the ozone layer.