Introduction:

Cow is a huge domestic animal which gives us milk and other important materials. She has two eyes, one nose, two ears, four legs, two horns on her big head and a long tail. She eats grass, hay, fodder and grains. But she likes to graze green grasses in an open field. We keep cow in a cattle or a shed. Cows are found in various colours such as white, black, brown, yellowish and a mixture of many colours. Her milk is very useful for the human beings. Each and everything a cow provides us, has its own importance. In India, she is called as “Gaou Mata”. She has many religious significances for Hindus. They respect her as their mother. For them she is a very pious animal.

Origin of Cow

According to the Indian scriptural, the origination of cow is considered to be in India. But the modern cattle are divided into two breeds. Some have their origin in India and some in Europe. The modern two breeds of cattle are Bos Taurus and Bos Indicus.

    Bos Taurus:

Bos Taurus cattle are also known as Taurine cattle. It was originated around 200,000 years ago in Europe. It was Columbus who brought the first cow in 1493 on his second voyage to the New World.

    Bos Indicus:

Bos Indicus is also known as Zebus cattle. It is domestic type cattle which was originated in South Asia around 10,000 years ago.

Importance of Cow:

Cow is very useful for the human beings. She gives us milk which is very useful. Her milk is used in various ways. Some people use it as a medicine and some for the religious purposes. It is very useful for the young age children as well as patient. The whole body of cow is useful to us as:

    After death of cow, her skin is used for making shoes, bags and other leather items.
    Her dung is used as a fuel to make fire and also as a fertilizer.
    From her milk, we make so many products as butter, curd, cheese, sweets, khovaa, etc.
    Her baby calf (he/she) is also very useful to us. If her baby is male calf, he will be bull or ox in his adult age. He is helpful to the Peasants to plough their fields and if it is female calf then she will be cow which serves us as her mother.
    Indian Hindus worship her on their festivals.
    Products made by her milk (such as Gee, curd, etc) are also used at religious events as Dudh Abhishek of Indian God or Goddesses, pooja, Havan, to make panchaamrit, etc.
