Introduction

Everyone realizes that a cow is a local animal and helpful to us in different ways. She is a quadruped animal. They discover her everywhere worldwide. In India, it is a custom and custom of venerating her as a mother. She is delicate. Us find her in various shapes, sizes, and hues. and the cow has a substantial body with little hair everywhere throughout the body. two ears, two eyes. & two horns on her set out toward self-assurance. cow gets a kick out of the chance to munch the grass. She bites her sustenance great in the mouth and after that swallows. Sometimes it assaults the people.
Use full of Cow Milk:

The cow gives us milk. They load it with supplements, great fat, and protein. Specialists recommend to their patients to drink cow milk since it is absorbable. We use cow milk to make a few edibles things and dishes. It can change its milk in many structures, for example, curd, khoya, paneer, spread, whey, Gee, and so forth.

Cow milk makes us solid and solid. Us give it high status in the public arena since it is very painful to us from numerous points of view. It helps in expanding the insusceptibility intensity of our body. It keeps us from different contaminations and infections. We should drink cow milk day by day as it makes our mind sharp.
Why People respect Cow in India:

A cow is a consecrated animal. From the old time, we are revering cows as our mom. There are so many stories behind revering a cow. One of the most notable Hindu divinities, Lord Krishna, who was used to of playing woodwind among cows and her calves. They likewise call him as ‘Govinda’ or ‘Gopala’ which signifies “the defender or a companion of cows”. It looks like as that a genuine lover should sustain a cow first before taking his/her very own morning meal. By doing this, God will be glad on his enthusiast. As showed by another old story, it is said the earth is on the cow’s horns.

Many Hindus respect and love cows. The cow is an image of heavenly abundance on the earth to people. Hindu people finish cows with wreaths and trimmings on the celebration ‘Gauasthami’ all over India. It encapsulates her temperament in kamadhenu, the celestial which satisfies every one of her desires. The items arranged by cow milk, for example, desserts, milk, well, and so on are basic components in Hindu love.
Kinds of Cow:

There are so many kinds of a cow in India as per the area. She contrasts in shading, measure, and physical quality. All around, there are two kinds of cow breeds: Taurine and Zebu. Something created the taurine cow in Europe and the second one in South Asia. There is a third breed called a Taurine-Indians breed which is the blend of Taurine and Zebu breeds. the excellence of the two breeds has an incredible distinction. They created taurine steers in the Fertile Crescent area while someone trained Zebu type.
Conclusion:

The cow is an animal of delicate nature that gives us many helpful things. Everything identified with it is very valuable to mankind. In fact, in view of the advantages and weight of religious significance, many hindus also eat cow hamburger. People eat cow’s body, even they realize that killing cow is a crime. Along with India there are countless meats eating meat in different countries of the world. Many unusual types of cow are at risk due to their hamburger. In this context, the Government of India has made a clear progress towards increasing the life of the cow.