Noise Pollution

Noise pollution is caused by the noise when the level of noise gets increased than the normal level in the environment. Excessive amount of noise in the environment is unsafe for the living purpose. Unpleasant sound causes various disturbances in the natural balance. High volume noises are unnatural and create difficulty in escaping those generated noises. In such a modern and technological world, where everything is possible through the electrical appliances at home or outside the home, the risk of noise has been increased to a great extent.

Increasing the demand of urbanization and industrialization in India is causing major exposure of people to the unwanted sounds. Understanding, planning and implementing strategies to get prevented from the noise pollution has been necessary to curb within time. The sounds we make in our everyday life like loud music, unnecessary use of television, phone, traffic, dog barking and etc noise creating sources have become part of the urban culture as well as most disturbing things causing headache, sleep disturbances, stress, etc. Those things causing disturbance to the natural rhythm of life are called as dangerous pollutant. Following are the causes or sources and effects of the noise pollution:

Causes of Noise Pollution

    Industrialization is putting our health and life at risk because all the (big or small) industries are using big machines producing high pitch sound in large amount. Other equipments (compressors, generators, exhaust fans, grinding mills) used in the factories and industries also produces big noise.
    Regular social events like marriages, parties, pub, club, disc or place of worship, temples, etc create nuisance in the residential area.
    Increasing transportation in the cities (vehicles, aeroplanes, underground trains, etc) produces heavy noise.
    Regular construction activities (including mining, bridges, building, dams, stations, roads, flyovers, etc) involve big equipments creating high level of noise.
    Use of household appliances in our daily life is also the main reason noise pollution.

Effects of Noise Pollution

    Noise pollution causes various hearing problems (damage to ear drums and loss of hearing) because of the unwanted sound.
    It reduces ear sensitivity to the sounds required to regulate body rhythm.
    It affects the psychological health and causes the occurrence of aggressive behavior, sleep disturbance, stress, weakness, fatigue, hypertension, cardio-vascular diseases including other severe and chronic health issues in later life.
    It creates communication problems and lead to misunderstanding.
    Affects wildlife and makes pets more aggressive.

Preventive Measures:

General awareness should be increased among people and all the rules should be followed seriously by everyone in order to control the unsafe sound level in the environment. Unnecessary use of things generating high pitch sound should be reduced in the home or outside the home like clubs, parties, bars, discos, etc.