Introduction

In the modern world of technological advancement, pollution has become a serious environmental issue affecting the lives on earth. Pollution is undoubtedly affecting the whole environment and ecosystem and thus the normal quality of life. Our naturally beautiful environment on the earth is deteriorating day by day just by the foolish acts of human beings and the irony is that they themselves are getting affected by their deeds.

Types of Pollution

Some of the most important types of the pollution are air pollution, water pollution, soil pollution and noise pollution. Major types of pollution are given as below:

    Air Pollution

The main cause of air pollution is the heavy emissions of harmful and poisonous gases coming from the increasing number of vehicles, factories and open burning. Most of the air pollution is carried out by the transportation system on daily basis. Carbon dioxide and carbon monoxide are the toxic gases polluting the air and reducing the oxygen level in the environment.

Some other habits like open burning of household garbage and leftovers of crops etc are also worsening the air quality. Air pollution causes respiratory disorders including lung cancer among human beings.

    Water Pollution

Water pollution is also a big issue directly affecting the marine life as they only depend on the nutrients found in the water for their survival. Gradual disappearance of the marine life would really affect the livelihood of human beings and animals. Harmful wastes from factories, industries, sewage systems, farms etc are directly dumped into the main sources of water like rivers, lakes and oceans making the water contaminated. Drinking contaminated water can cause various water borne diseases.

    Soil Pollution

Soil pollution is caused by the excessive use of fertilizers, fungicides, herbicides, insecticides and other chemical compounds. This contaminates the crop produced on the soil and this when consumed can cause severe health hazards.

    Noise Pollution

The source of noise pollution is the noise created from the heavy machinery, vehicles, radio, TV, speakers etc which causes hearing problems and sometimes deafness. Noise pollution highly affects the elderly people and might also lead to heart attacks and depression.

Conclusion

Each and every type of pollution is dangerous and might result in a very serious consequence.  We should take care of our environment to maintain the natural ecosystem. It requires a joint effort from everyone to get control over the issue of pollution so that we can get a healthy and unpolluted environment. Preventing pollution is also very important to save other innocent species on earth and make the environment suitable for them.