Introduction

We have entered the twenty first century but it is unfortunate that we still haven’t fully understood the need and importance of women empowerment. Our society is majorly dominated by male members and professionals and women are still expected to take care of the household chores. It is high time we must recognize the need of women empowerment. It is essential for various reasons.

Need and Importance of Women Empowerment

Here is why there is a strong need and importance for women empowerment:

    Stop Domestic Violence

Women have been victims of domestic violence since ages. They have been suffering both physical and emotional abuse. What happens behind the closed doors is often not let out for the fear of tarnishing the family reputation. Besides, women are not even aware of their rights as most of them remain illiterate. They keep suffering and live in distress for most part of their lives. Empowering women would help in bringing down the domestic violence cases.

    Increase Literacy Rate

The first step towards empowering women is to educate them. Educating women would make them independent. They would no longer be dependent on the male members for their financial needs. They will be well-equipped to take up a good job and thus take charge of their life. This will also increase the literacy rate of the country.

    Fight Poverty

A woman who is educated will be able to secure a good professional position and help in raising the standard of living of her family. As more and more women will get educated and secure good jobs, the problem of poverty in our country would be curbed to a great extent.

    Create a Healthy Environment

Many women suffer at the hands of men. They live in constant stress as they are abused physically and emotionally. They are confined to the households and expected to take care of the kids. Confining somebody this way is sheer torture and against humanity. Many women get into depression owing to this and aren’t even able to nurture their children properly.

A woman who is educated and empowered is well aware of her rights. She knows that she deserves to be treated as a human and is not born to be dominated by the male members. In such as scenario, the man of the house will also think twice before raising his hands or voice at her. This will help in promoting a healthy environment at home.

    Upliftment of the Society

Women comprise almost half of the population of our country. One of the reasons why we as a nation haven’t developed as much as we should have since independence is because women in our country are not given a chance to use their wisdom and skills to contribute towards its development. Women empowerment would not only work in their favour but will also help in the overall development of the country.

Conclusion

Women empowerment is an important subject. Often neglected by our patriarchal society, this issue must be addressed seriously. Men need to understand that empowerment of women would work in their favour rather than against them. It will make our society a better place to live in.